                     TorBEL Exit Router Active Testing Specification

Author: Harry Bock
Created: 28-May-2010
Status: Draft

0. Scope

  This document describes the mechanism by which TorBEL performs
  active testing on exit routers on the Tor network.

  This document is a work-in-progress and the active testing mechanism
  may change quickly during the summer in response to demand and
  implementation issues.

1. Active Testing

  TorBEL actively tests exit routers for consistency and common
  configuration issues by opening a circuit to each exit router under
  test and connecting back to itself.

1.1 Test Circuit Details

  By default, TorBEL will use two-hop circuits for testing - the first
  node in a circuit should always be a guard, and the second will be
  the exit router under test.

  The current implementation of TorBEL creates a pool of Guard routers
  that are rotated to form new circuits.  It builds several circuits
  in advance (how many?) to allow for fast extension of circuits to
  exit routers under test and parallel testing for increased
  throughput.
  
  Upon creating a two-hop circuit to the exit router of choice, TorBEL
  attempts to open a TCP connection to itself on each port of interest
  and write a short sequence of data.  If the connection is successful
  and the data arrives unchanged, that port is recorded as Working.
  If the connection is refused or filtered, that port is recorded as
  Failed.

  The sequence of data sent used for each port test is unique, and
  used to ensure the results are not tampered with. TorBEL will not
  test a port that is explicitly rejected by the ExitPolicy of the
  router.

1.2 Port Coverage Concerns

  Ideally, TorBEL would test exiting on all possible ports allowed by
  the ExitPolicy.  This is not feasible, however, as it would take far
  too long to test a large number of ports for many routers.  It is
  therefore necessary to strike a balance between a large number of
  ports tested (to improve reliability of our answers about exit
  routers) and an acceptably short testing period (to allow consumers
  to know about new exit routers before they are known by all Tor
  routers).

  TorBEL attempts to cover as much of the most commonly used ports on
  the Tor network[1][2] as possible first, testing other interesting but
  less common ports later.
  
1.2.1. Privileged Ports
  
  Active testing is performed to verify exits from the following
  common privileged ports:
    - 21  (ftp)
    - 22  (ssh)
    - 23  (telnet)
    - 25  (smtp)
    - 43  (whois)
    - 53  (domain)
    - 80  (http)
    - 88  (kerberos)
    - 110 (pop3)
    - 115 (sftp)
    - 123 (ntp)
    - 143 (imap)
    - 443 (https)
    - 706 (silc)
    - 993 (imaps)
    - 995 (pop3s)

1.2.2. Unprivileged Ports

  Active testing is performed to verify exits from the following common
  privileged ports:
    - 5190 (aol)
    - 6667 (irc)
    - 8080 (http-alt)
    - 8443 (https-alt)

1.3. ExitAddress Testing

  The IP address advertised by a router may not be the actual IP
  address from which traffic exits to the Internet.  This is due to a
  number of factors, not all of which are malicious, including:

    - The router may exit traffic through a different interface or
      IP address than the address used for connections from other
      Tor routers.

    - iptables or equivalent host-based firewall rules may have
      traffic for certain ports exit from different IP addresses.
      Thus the IP address seen for an exit router using port 80 might
      not be the same as when using port 6667.
      
    - The router may be behind a NAT device that has a pool of IP
      addresses for outgoing traffic.  While the router may be able to
      accept incoming traffic at a fixed address and ORPort, each
      connection coming out of the exit router may then have a
      different external IP address.

  TorBEL attempts to determine the first case in a simple
  manner. While testing a port, TorBEL will simply call getpeername()
  to find the IP address of the connected peer, assuming it receives
  the traffic sequence it is expecting.

  The second case is more difficult, since TorBEL does not and should
  not test all possible ports allowed through a router's ExitPolicy.
  Thus it is possible that TorBEL will not find out all IP addresses
  associated with a particular exit; however, if more than one IP
  address is discovered through active testing, each will be recorded
  in a separate record as in data-spec.

  Another interesting issue is that operators may run several exit
  routers on the same IP address, possibly with separate exit
  policies.  Each of these routers will have the same IP address but
  separate identity key hashes.  In this case, each router instance
  will have its own record with unique identity keys but non-unique IP
  addresses.

2. References

[1] "A Case Study on Measuring Statistical Data in the Tor Anonymity Network"
    Karsten Loesing, Steven J. Murdoch, and Roger Dingledine
    http://freehaven.net/anonbib/cache/wecsr10measuring-tor.pdf

[2] "Shining Light in Dark Places: Understanding the Tor Network"
    Damon McCoy, Kevin Bauer, Dirk Grunwald, Tadayoshi Kohno, and Douglas Sicker
    http://freehaven.net/anonbib/cache/mccoy-pet2008.pdf
